## Fast Disaggregation in Time Technology (FDTT)


Time is a critical dimension in finance. Time value of money is one of the core principles and is the basis for the discounted cash flow in equities markets. Time value of money is also the basis of carrying cost in commodities markets. 

Likewise, the high speed nature of financial markets requires one to be able react in real-time. Reaction in real time requires having benchmarks that are in continuous time. An individual cannot react in real time if the benchmarks one is using are at a monthly, quarterly or yearly frequency. However, much of the data that drives these markets come in aggregated form and at a lower frequency than that of the high frequency nature of the financial markets. Lower frequency data with its potential greater time for collection can often have higher quality. Furthermore, when modeling markets, it is often good to have a small, finite set of numbers that explain the market, even though these numbers may very well be aggregations or averages of more complicated continuous processes. 

Due to the criticality of the time dimension of the financial market, an investment process will have two desirable properties: (a) use high quality lower frequency data or a simple set of lower frequency data in the investment process, (b) be able to relate this lower frequency data to a higher frequency time scale at which the financial markets trade. These two properties argue for the development of processes that allow for transform of lower frequency data to higher frequency, accurate data. 

Spectral Technologies has developed this transform. The transform that has been developed is called Fast Disaggregation in Time Technology (FDTT). FDTT is derived using variational principles and energy minimization techniques. FDTT has been applied to improve the Discounted Cash Flow, a core formula in equities markets. Such improved Discounted Cash Flow has been endorsed by Christopher Jones, Oxford PhD, Jump Trading Researcher. Furthermore, FDTT has also been applied to EIA Natural Gas Market Data, and is in usage at major, global hedge fund for their commodities division. The techniques have drawn interest from researchers and exists in code bases at Capital One, NextEra Energy and DC Energy. 
